README.md, before:

# Validator Balance

### Intro

This is a very small Python script which is intended to be run on the same box as a validator, but really can be run on any box with 100% uptime. It tracks a list of up to 10 validators, and saves balance details for every epoch to locally-saved csv files.

It tries to check only once per epoch, or roughly every 6 minutes. Each validator gets its own CSV file, with data for ["timestamp", "datetime_utc","epoch","effective_balance_eth","balance_eth","delta_eth","balance_usd","delta_usd"]. 

On the first run, if you have been running your validators for a while, be aware that the Beaconcha.in API endpoint I'm using seems to only get a maximmum of the 100 most-recent epochs. Additionally, the API doesn't get historical prices as Beaconchain doesn't provide timestamps. 

In a future update, I may at least add historical pricing for those past 100 epochs, by just calculating backwards based on how many seconds are in an epoch. 

I would recommend you find a solution to backup these CSV files regularly, as all this does is create them and append new data to the end.

### Pre-installation:
Register for Coinbase if you haven't and create an API key. One you are logged in, go [here](https://developers.coinbase.com/) and click "MY APPS" in the upper-right corner. Create the app and key. This script doesn't need any permissions, but Coinbase requires you to choose some when creating the key, so just choose whatever permissions you want. 

Then you can install the script.

### Installation (Linux)
0. `cd ~` (if using a different directory, you'll ahave to adjust the service files)
1. `git clone https://github.com/Toruitas/validator_balance.git && cd validator_balance`
2. `pipenv install`
3. Export environment variables for COINBASE_API_KEY, COINBASE_SECRET, SENDGRID_API_KEY, and TO_EMAIL
4. `pipenv run python validator_balance.py`
5. (new shell) `pipenv run python daily_email.py`
6. If they run succesfully, go ahead and make the service files.

Copy and paste this in the terminal to create the file for validator_balance.py:
```
cat > $HOME/validator_balance.service << EOF 
[Unit]
Description=Validator balance service
Wants=network-online.target
After=network-online.target 
Conflicts=getty@tty1.service

[Service]
Type=simple
User=$(whoami)
Group=$(whoami)
WorkingDirectory=$(echo $HOME)/validator_balance
ExecStart=$(which pipenv) run python $(echo $HOME)/validator_balance/validator_balance.py
Restart=always

[Install]
WantedBy    = multi-user.target
EOF
```

Then the script will start running. If the CSV files don't already exist, first they'll be created with the appropriate headers. If they do exist, on each loop the files will be opened, new data added, and saved.

Commit message:

Update readme with service and crontab

README.md, after:

# Validator Balance

### Intro

This is a very small Python script which is intended to be run on the same box as a validator, but really can be run on any box with 100% uptime. It tracks a list of up to 10 validators, and saves balance details for every epoch to locally-saved csv files.

It tries to check only once per epoch, or roughly every 6 minutes. Each validator gets its own CSV file, with data for ["timestamp", "datetime_utc","epoch","effective_balance_eth","balance_eth","delta_eth","balance_usd","delta_usd"]. 

On the first run, if you have been running your validators for a while, be aware that the Beaconcha.in API endpoint I'm using seems to only get a maximmum of the 100 most-recent epochs. Additionally, the API doesn't get historical prices as Beaconchain doesn't provide timestamps. 

In a future update, I may at least add historical pricing for those past 100 epochs, by just calculating backwards based on how many seconds are in an epoch. 

I would recommend you find a solution to backup these CSV files regularly, as all this does is create them and append new data to the end.

### Pre-installation:
Register for Coinbase if you haven't and create an API key. One you are logged in, go [here](https://developers.coinbase.com/) and click "MY APPS" in the upper-right corner. Create the app and key. This script doesn't need any permissions, but Coinbase requires you to choose some when creating the key, so just choose whatever permissions you want. 

Then you can install the script.

### Installation (Linux)
0. `cd ~` (if using a different directory, you'll ahave to adjust the service files)
1. `git clone https://github.com/Toruitas/validator_balance.git && cd validator_balance`
2. `pipenv install`
3. Export environment variables for COINBASE_API_KEY, COINBASE_SECRET, SENDGRID_API_KEY, and TO_EMAIL. You can put them into a `.env` file in /validator_balance and pipenv will load them automatically as part of `pipenv run`
4. Add your validators to `validator_balance.py`. Sorry, max of 10.
5. `pipenv run python validator_balance.py`
6. (new shell) `pipenv run python daily_email.py`
7. If they run succesfully, go ahead and make the service and cron files.
8. Copy and paste this in the terminal to create the service file for `validator_balance.py` (you might want to make sure the formatting is correct first, use `nano`):
```
cat > $HOME/validator_balance.service << EOF 
[Unit]
Description=Validator balance service
Wants=network-online.target
After=network-online.target 
Conflicts=getty@tty1.service

[Service]
Type=simple
User=$(whoami)
Group=$(whoami)
WorkingDirectory=$(echo $HOME)/validator_balance
ExecStart=$(which pipenv) run python $(echo $HOME)/validator_balance/validator_balance.py
Restart=always

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
EOF
```

9. `sudo mv $HOME/validator_balance.service /etc/systemd/system/validator_balance.service`
10. `sudo systemctl daemon-reload`
11. `sudo systemctl enable validator_balance.service`
12. `sudo systemctl start  validator_balance`
13. Set system to use UTC. The scripts all use UTC, and since you're using a dedicated staking machine, you can too!. (How do I change my timezone to UTC/GMT?)[https://askubuntu.com/a/138442/448606]
14. `crontab -e` and add `0 1 * * * $(which pipenv) run python $(echo $HOME)/validator_balance/validator_balance.py >> ~/cron.log` to the bottom. This will run the email script daily at 1am UTC.
15. `reboot` and you're golden.

Then the script will start running. If the CSV files don't already exist, first they'll be created with the appropriate headers. If they do exist, on each loop the files will be opened, new data added, and saved.
